com.unity.render-pipelines.high-definition/Documentation~/Override-Screen-Space-Reflection.md, before:

# Screen Space Reflection

The **Screen Space Reflection** (SSR) override is a High Definition Render Pipeline (HDRP) feature that uses the depth and color buffer of the screen to calculate reflections. For information about how SSR works in HDRP, see the [reflection documentation](Reflection-in-HDRP.md#ScreenSpaceReflection).

HDRP implements [ray-traced reflection](Ray-Traced-Reflections.md) on top of this override. This means that the properties visible in the Inspector change depending on whether or not you enable ray tracing. 

## Enabling Screen Space Reflection

[!include[](snippets/Volume-Override-Enable-Override.md)]

For this feature:
The property to enable in your HDRP Asset is: **Lighting > Reflections > Screen Space Reflection**.
The property to enable in your Frame Settings is: **Lighting > Screen Space Reflection**.

## Using Screen Space Reflection

HDRP uses the [Volume](Volumes.md) framework to calculate SSR, so to enable and modify SSR properties, you must add a **Screen Space Reflection** override to a [Volume](Volumes.md) in your Scene. To add **Screen Space Reflection** to a Volume:

1. In the Scene or Hierarchy view, select a GameObject that contains a Volume component to view it in the Inspector.
2. In the Inspector, navigate to **Add Override > Lighting** and click **Screen Space Reflection**. 
   HDRP now calculates SSR for any Camera this Volume affects.

## Properties

[!include[](snippets/Volume-Override-Enable-Properties.md)]

The properties visible in the Inspector change depending on whether or not you enable ray tracing for this effect:

* To not use ray tracing and instead use the screen-space reflection solution, disable **Ray Tracing** in the Inspector and see [Screen-space](#screen-space) for the list of properties.
* To use ray tracing, enable **Ray Tracing** in the Inspector and see [Ray-traced](#ray-traced) for the list of properties.

### Screen-space

![](Images/Override-ScreenSpaceReflection1.png)

| **Property**                  | **Description**                                              |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Enable**                    | Indicates whether HDRP processes SSR for Cameras in the influence of this effect's Volume. |
| **Ray Tracing**               | Indicates whether HDRP uses ray tracing to calculate reflections. If you enable this property, it completely changes the implementation for this Volume override and exposes a new set of properties to control the ray-traced reflections.<br/>For information on ray-traced reflections, see [ray-traced reflection](Ray-Traced-Reflections.md).<br/>For information on the properties that control the ray-traced reflections, see the [Ray-traced](#ray-traced) properties section below. |
| **Algorithm**                 | Specifies the algorithm to use for the screen-space reflection effect. The options are:<br/>&#8226; **Approximation**: Approximates screen-space reflection to quickly calculate a result. This solution is less precise than **PBR Accumulation**, particularly for rough surfaces, but is less resource intensive.<br/>&#8226; **PBR Accumulation**: Accumulates multiple frames to calculate a more accurate result. You can control the amount of accumulation using **Accumulation Factor**. This solution might produce more ghosting than **Approximation**, due to the accumulation, and is also more resources intensive. HDRP does not apply this algorithm to transparent material and instead always uses **Approximation**. |
| **Minimum Smoothness**        | Use the slider to set the minimum amount of surface smoothness at which HDRP performs SSR tracing. Lower values result in HDRP performing SSR tracing for less smooth GameObjects. If the smoothness value of the pixel is lower than this value, HDRP falls back to the next available reflection method in the [reflection hierarchy](Reflection-in-HDRP.md#ReflectionHierarchy). |
| **Smoothness Fade Start**     | Use the slider to set the smoothness value at which SSR reflections begin to fade out. Lower values result in HDRP fading out SSR reflections for less smooth GameObjects. The fade is in the range [Minimum Smoothness, Smoothness Fade Start]. |
| **Reflect Sky**               | Indicates whether HDRP should use SSR to handle sky reflection. If you disable this property, pixels that reflect the sky use the next level of the [reflection hierarchy](Reflection-in-HDRP.md#ReflectionHierarchy).<br />**Note**: SSR uses the depth buffer to calculate reflection and HDRP does not add transparent GameObjects to the depth buffer. If you enable this property, transparent GameObject that appear over the sky in the color buffer can cause visual artifacts and incorrect looking reflection. This is a common limitation for SSR techniques. |
| **Screen Edge Fade Distance** | Use the slider to control the distance at which HDRP fades out screen space reflections when the destination of the ray is near the boundaries of the screen. Increase this value to increase the distance from the screen edge at which HDRP fades out screen space reflections for a ray destination. |
| **Object Thickness**          | Use the slider to control the thickness of the GameObjects on screen. Because the SSR algorithm can not distinguish thin GameObjects from thick ones, this property helps trace rays behind GameObjects. The algorithm applies this property to every GameObject uniformly. |
| **Quality**                   | Specifies the quality level to use for this effect. Each quality level applies different preset values. Unity also stops you from editing the properties that the preset overrides. If you want to set your own values for every property, select **Custom**. |
| - **Max Ray Steps**           | Sets the maximum number of iterations that the algorithm can execute before it stops trying to find an intersection with a Mesh. For example, if you set the number of iterations to 1000 and the algorithm only needs 10 to find an intersection, the algorithm terminates after 10 iterations. If you set this value too low, the algorithm may terminate too early and abruptly stop reflections. |
| **Accumulation Factor**       | The speed of the accumulation convergence. 0 means no accumulation. 1 means accumulation is very slow which is useful for fixed images. The more accumulation, the more accurate the result but the more ghosting occurs when moving. When using accumulation, it is important to find a balance between convergence quality and the ghosting artifact. Also note that rougher reflective surfaces require more accumulation to produce a converged image without noise.<br/>This property only appears if you set **Algorithm** to **PBR Accumulation**. |

### Ray-traced

| Property                  | Description                                                  |
| ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Reflect Sky**           | Enable this feature to specify to HDRP that it should use the sky as a fall-back for ray-traced reflections when a ray doesn't find an intersection. |
| **LayerMask**             | Defines the layers that HDRP processes this ray-traced effect for. |
| **Mode**                  | Defines if HDRP should evaluate the effect in **Performance** or **Quality** mode.<br/>This property only appears if you select set **Supported Ray Tracing Mode** in your HDRP Asset to **Both**. |
| **Quality**               | Specifies the preset HDRP uses to populate the values of the following nested properties. The options are:<br/>&#8226; **Low**: A preset that emphasizes performance over quality.<br/>&#8226; **Medium**: A preset that balances performance and quality.<br/>&#8226; **High**: A preset that emphasizes quality over performance.<br/>&#8226; **Custom**: Allows you to override each property individually.<br/>This property only appears if you set **Mode** to **Performance**. |
| **Minimum Smoothness**    | See **Minimum Smoothness** in [Screen-space](#screen-space). |
| **Smoothness Fade Start** | See **Smoothness Fade Start** in [Screen-space](#screen-space). |
| **Max Ray Length**        | Controls the maximal length of global illumination rays. The higher this value is, the more expensive ray traced global illumination is. If a ray doesn't find an intersection. |
| **Clamp Value**           | Controls the threshold that HDRP uses to clamp the pre-exposed value. This reduces the range of values and makes the reflections more stable to denoise, but reduces quality. |
| **Full Resolution**       | Enable this feature to increase the ray budget to one ray per pixel, per frame. Disable this feature to decrease the ray budget to one ray per four pixels, per frame.<br/>This property only appears if you set **Mode** to **Performance**. |
| **Sample Count**          | Controls the number of rays per pixel per frame. Increasing this value increases execution time linearly.<br/>This property only appears if you set **Mode** to **Quality**. |
| **Bounce Count**          | Controls the number of bounces that reflection rays can do. Increasing this value increases execution time exponentially.<br/>This property only appears if you set **Mode** to **Quality**. |
| **Denoise**               | Enables the spatio-temporal filter that HDRP uses to remove noise from the reflections. |
| - **Denoiser Radius**     | Controls the radius of the spatio-temporal filter. Increasing this value results in a more blurry result and a higher execution time. |

## Limitations

### Screen-space reflection

To calculate SSR, HDRP reads a color buffer with a blurred mipmap generated during the previous frame. The color buffer only includes transparent GameObjects that use the **BeforeRefraction** [Rendering Pass](Surface-Type.md). 

If a transparent material has **Receive SSR Transparent** enabled, HDRP always uses the **Approximation** algorithm to calculate SSR, even you select **PBR Accumulation**.



### Ray-traced reflection

Currently, ray tracing in HDRP does not support [decals](decal.md). This means that, when you use ray-traced reflection, decals do not appear in reflective surfaces.

Commit message:

Added informatiom about the Affects Smooth Surfaces property

com.unity.render-pipelines.high-definition/Documentation~/Override-Screen-Space-Reflection.md, after:

# Screen Space Reflection

The **Screen Space Reflection** (SSR) override is a High Definition Render Pipeline (HDRP) feature that uses the depth and color buffer of the screen to calculate reflections. For information about how SSR works in HDRP, see the [reflection documentation](Reflection-in-HDRP.md#ScreenSpaceReflection).

HDRP implements [ray-traced reflection](Ray-Traced-Reflections.md) on top of this override. This means that the properties visible in the Inspector change depending on whether or not you enable ray tracing. 

## Enabling Screen Space Reflection

[!include[](snippets/Volume-Override-Enable-Override.md)]

For this feature:
The property to enable in your HDRP Asset is: **Lighting > Reflections > Screen Space Reflection**.
The property to enable in your Frame Settings is: **Lighting > Screen Space Reflection**.

## Using Screen Space Reflection

HDRP uses the [Volume](Volumes.md) framework to calculate SSR, so to enable and modify SSR properties, you must add a **Screen Space Reflection** override to a [Volume](Volumes.md) in your Scene. To add **Screen Space Reflection** to a Volume:

1. In the Scene or Hierarchy view, select a GameObject that contains a Volume component to view it in the Inspector.
2. In the Inspector, navigate to **Add Override > Lighting** and click **Screen Space Reflection**. 
   HDRP now calculates SSR for any Camera this Volume affects.

## Properties

[!include[](snippets/Volume-Override-Enable-Properties.md)]

The properties visible in the Inspector change depending on whether or not you enable ray tracing for this effect:

* To not use ray tracing and instead use the screen-space reflection solution, disable **Ray Tracing** in the Inspector and see [Screen-space](#screen-space) for the list of properties.
* To use ray tracing, enable **Ray Tracing** in the Inspector and see [Ray-traced](#ray-traced) for the list of properties.

### Screen-space

![](Images/Override-ScreenSpaceReflection1.png)

| **Property**                  | **Description**                                              |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Enable**                    | Indicates whether HDRP processes SSR for Cameras in the influence of this effect's Volume. |
| **Ray Tracing**               | Indicates whether HDRP uses ray tracing to calculate reflections. If you enable this property, it completely changes the implementation for this Volume override and exposes a new set of properties to control the ray-traced reflections.<br/>For information on ray-traced reflections, see [ray-traced reflection](Ray-Traced-Reflections.md).<br/>For information on the properties that control the ray-traced reflections, see the [Ray-traced](#ray-traced) properties section below. |
| **Algorithm**                 | Specifies the algorithm to use for the screen-space reflection effect. The options are:<br/>&#8226; **Approximation**: Approximates screen-space reflection to quickly calculate a result. This solution is less precise than **PBR Accumulation**, particularly for rough surfaces, but is less resource intensive.<br/>&#8226; **PBR Accumulation**: Accumulates multiple frames to calculate a more accurate result. You can control the amount of accumulation using **Accumulation Factor**. This solution might produce more ghosting than **Approximation**, due to the accumulation, and is also more resources intensive. HDRP does not apply this algorithm to transparent material and instead always uses **Approximation**. |
| **Minimum Smoothness**        | Use the slider to set the minimum amount of surface smoothness at which HDRP performs SSR tracing. Lower values result in HDRP performing SSR tracing for less smooth GameObjects. If the smoothness value of the pixel is lower than this value, HDRP falls back to the next available reflection method in the [reflection hierarchy](Reflection-in-HDRP.md#ReflectionHierarchy). |
| **Smoothness Fade Start**     | Use the slider to set the smoothness value at which SSR reflections begin to fade out. Lower values result in HDRP fading out SSR reflections for less smooth GameObjects. The fade is in the range [Minimum Smoothness, Smoothness Fade Start]. |
| **Reflect Sky**               | Indicates whether HDRP should use SSR to handle sky reflection. If you disable this property, pixels that reflect the sky use the next level of the [reflection hierarchy](Reflection-in-HDRP.md#ReflectionHierarchy).<br />**Note**: SSR uses the depth buffer to calculate reflection and HDRP does not add transparent GameObjects to the depth buffer. If you enable this property, transparent GameObject that appear over the sky in the color buffer can cause visual artifacts and incorrect looking reflection. This is a common limitation for SSR techniques. |
| **Screen Edge Fade Distance** | Use the slider to control the distance at which HDRP fades out screen space reflections when the destination of the ray is near the boundaries of the screen. Increase this value to increase the distance from the screen edge at which HDRP fades out screen space reflections for a ray destination. |
| **Object Thickness**          | Use the slider to control the thickness of the GameObjects on screen. Because the SSR algorithm can not distinguish thin GameObjects from thick ones, this property helps trace rays behind GameObjects. The algorithm applies this property to every GameObject uniformly. |
| **Quality**                   | Specifies the quality level to use for this effect. Each quality level applies different preset values. Unity also stops you from editing the properties that the preset overrides. If you want to set your own values for every property, select **Custom**. |
| - **Max Ray Steps**           | Sets the maximum number of iterations that the algorithm can execute before it stops trying to find an intersection with a Mesh. For example, if you set the number of iterations to 1000 and the algorithm only needs 10 to find an intersection, the algorithm terminates after 10 iterations. If you set this value too low, the algorithm may terminate too early and abruptly stop reflections. |
| **Accumulation Factor**       | The speed of the accumulation convergence. 0 means no accumulation. 1 means accumulation is very slow which is useful for fixed images. The more accumulation, the more accurate the result but the more ghosting occurs when moving. When using accumulation, it is important to find a balance between convergence quality and the ghosting artifact. Also note that rougher reflective surfaces require more accumulation to produce a converged image without noise.<br/>This property only appears if you set **Algorithm** to **PBR Accumulation**. |

### Ray-traced

| Property                      | Description                                                  |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **Reflect Sky**               | Enable this feature to specify to HDRP that it should use the sky as a fall-back for ray-traced reflections when a ray doesn't find an intersection. |
| **LayerMask**                 | Defines the layers that HDRP processes this ray-traced effect for. |
| **Mode**                      | Defines if HDRP should evaluate the effect in **Performance** or **Quality** mode.<br/>This property only appears if you select set **Supported Ray Tracing Mode** in your HDRP Asset to **Both**. |
| **Quality**                   | Specifies the preset HDRP uses to populate the values of the following nested properties. The options are:<br/>&#8226; **Low**: A preset that emphasizes performance over quality.<br/>&#8226; **Medium**: A preset that balances performance and quality.<br/>&#8226; **High**: A preset that emphasizes quality over performance.<br/>&#8226; **Custom**: Allows you to override each property individually.<br/>This property only appears if you set **Mode** to **Performance**. |
| **Minimum Smoothness**        | See **Minimum Smoothness** in [Screen-space](#screen-space). |
| **Smoothness Fade Start**     | See **Smoothness Fade Start** in [Screen-space](#screen-space). |
| **Max Ray Length**            | Controls the maximal length of global illumination rays. The higher this value is, the more expensive ray traced global illumination is. If a ray doesn't find an intersection. |
| **Clamp Value**               | Controls the threshold that HDRP uses to clamp the pre-exposed value. This reduces the range of values and makes the reflections more stable to denoise, but reduces quality. |
| **Full Resolution**           | Enable this feature to increase the ray budget to one ray per pixel, per frame. Disable this feature to decrease the ray budget to one ray per four pixels, per frame.<br/>This property only appears if you set **Mode** to **Performance**. |
| **Sample Count**              | Controls the number of rays per pixel per frame. Increasing this value increases execution time linearly.<br/>This property only appears if you set **Mode** to **Quality**. |
| **Bounce Count**              | Controls the number of bounces that reflection rays can do. Increasing this value increases execution time exponentially.<br/>This property only appears if you set **Mode** to **Quality**. |
| **Denoise**                   | Enables the spatio-temporal filter that HDRP uses to remove noise from the reflections. |
| - **Denoiser Radius**         | Controls the radius of the spatio-temporal filter. Increasing this value results in a more blurry result and a higher execution time. |
| - **Affects Smooth Surfaces** | Indicates whether the denoiser affects perfectly smooth surfaces (surfaces with a **Smoothness** of 1.0) or not. |

## Limitations

### Screen-space reflection

To calculate SSR, HDRP reads a color buffer with a blurred mipmap generated during the previous frame. The color buffer only includes transparent GameObjects that use the **BeforeRefraction** [Rendering Pass](Surface-Type.md). 

If a transparent material has **Receive SSR Transparent** enabled, HDRP always uses the **Approximation** algorithm to calculate SSR, even you select **PBR Accumulation**.



### Ray-traced reflection

Currently, ray tracing in HDRP does not support [decals](decal.md). This means that, when you use ray-traced reflection, decals do not appear in reflective surfaces.
